---
title: "Risk Resources in Internal Audit"
url: "https://www.theiia.org/en/resources/topics/risk/"
category: "topics"
last_updated: "2025-07-15T02:46:07.178Z"
scraped_at: "2025-07-15T02:46:07.179Z"
---### Be Risk Ready Emerging risks are changing and the role of internal audit is evolving. Internal Auditors need deeper business acumen, strategic mindset, and know-how to foster relationships with stakeholders to become trusted advisors. The IIA provides perspectives, insights, services, tools, and resources to support you. ## Risk Resources All Things Internal Audit The Rise of Fourth-Party Threats Internal auditors are evolving to tackle fourth-party risks through tech, contracts, and collaboration. Tools Assessing Sustainability Readiness This tool is designed to help internal auditors understand their organization’s sustainability strategy,... All Things Internal Audit The IIA’s New Cybersecurity Topical Requirement This episode covers how internal auditors can prepare for the new Cybersecurity Topical Requirement. Research Enhanced Enterprise Risk Management and Strategic Decision-Making This report distills insights from a global survey of 567 professionals, conducted by Baker Tilly and The IIA’s... Tools Enterprise and Business Process Risks Create risk matrices and heat maps. Guidance Global Practice Guide: Coordination and Reliance: Working with Other Assurance... New guidance aligned with the Global Internal Audit Standards. [ View All ](/en/search/?rpp=5&filters=2399) [Load More...](#) ## Related Resources ### Certification in Risk Management Assurance Updated to reflect the in-depth organizational knowledge and advanced skill sets that are required to provide effective risk management assurance to audit committees and executive management. ### OnRisk Report OnRisk 2022: A Guide to Understanding, Aligning, and Optimizing Risk offers an eye-opening and in-depth examination of the top 12 risks for 2022, along with six key observations from the boardroom, C-suite, and internal audit. ### Internal Auditor Magazine Internal Auditor magazine shares timely, helpful — indispensable — information for professionals who want to keep pace with the diverse, dynamic field of internal auditing. ## Related Resources Webinar --> [Beyond Compliance: Driving Impactful Change as Public Sector Internal Auditors](/en/products/learning-solutions/webinar/beyond-compliance-driving-impactful-change-as-public-sector-internal-auditors2/) - [Webinar](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=81668) Webinar --> [Public Sector Internal Audit: Risk in Procurement](https://www.crowe.com/events/public-sector-internal-audit-risk-in-procurement-7-24-25) - [Executive Member Benefit](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=98088) - [Webinar](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2130) - [Public Sector](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2170) Essential News for Audit Leaders Network --> [CAE Bulletin Issue](/en/content/newsletter/cae-bulletin/cae-bulletin-issue-july-14-2025/) - [Essential News for Audit Leaders Network](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=137270) - [CAE Bulletin](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=46568) - [Newsletter](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2347) - [Global Regions](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2146) - [English](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2176) In-Person --> [ESG Certificate: Internal Auditing for Sustainable Organizations](/en/products/learning-solutions/course/esg-certificate-internal-auditing-for-sustainable-organizations/) - [Certificate Programs](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=107631) - [Applied Knowledge](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79747) - [IIA HQ](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79750) - [Intermediate](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79749) - [Environmental Social and Governance (ESG)](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=100235) - [Online](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79759) - [In-Person](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79763) - [Course](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79760) - [CPE Hours: 11 to 20](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2374) In-Person --> [Fundamentals of IT Auditing](/en/products/learning-solutions/course/fundamentals-of-it-auditing/) - [Las Vegas, Nevada](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=97753) - [New York, New York](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=97748) - [Lake Buena Vista (Disney), Florida](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=97774) - [Orlando/Lake Mary, Florida](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=97755) - [General Awareness](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79782) - [IIA HQ](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79750) - [Basic](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79775) - [IT General Controls](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79940) - [Online](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79759) - [In-Person](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79763) - [Course](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79760) - [Environment](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79751) - [CPE Hours: 11 to 20](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2374) Online --> [Outils pour les responsables de l'audit](/en/products/learning-solutions/course/outils-pour-les-responsables-de-laudit/) - [IIA Canada](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=81062) - [Applied Knowledge](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79747) - [IIA HQ](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79750) - [Intermediate](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79749) - [Online](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79759) - [Course](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=79760) - [CPE Hours: 21+](/en/search/resource-search/?filters=2375) [ View All ](/en/search/resource-search/) ## Additional Topics ### Audit Practice Deepening your expertise in internal audit practices ensures you uphold the highest standards of auditing accuracy and organizational accountability ### Governance Governance acumen is critical for internal auditors, shaping a robust framework that upholds auditing principles and corporate ethics ### Leadership Leadership within the internal audit sector is about steering audit teams towards excellence and fostering a culture of meticulous and ethical auditing practices ### Technology Embracing technology within internal auditing paves the way for innovative audit methodologies and enhances the efficiency and effectiveness of audit processes ### Interested in Becoming a Member? [ Becoming a Member ](/link/fa01a14f63f4488099024c7564170206.aspx) ## Learn about IIA programs and partners. We are continually searching for innovative products and services to enhance our members' ability to meet their rising stakeholder demands.